Hello this is Kirill from forexboat dot com.
And welcome back to the course on testing and optimization meditated for today we're going to be launching
the real test of our expert advisors simple system version 5.0 in front of you here you can see my 4
x the P.S. with the 4 demo test that we have been running so far.
But at the same time I have opened a real account.
I've opened it with Alper.
I'll parry but that's not necessarily my favorite Broecker by any means.
If you would like to find out who my favorite broker is please visit me on double dot for exposed dot
com slash brokers and there you'll be able to see a comparison of the different companies that you can
trade with and which ones are better for expert advisers which works better for manual trading which
ones are better for different types of algorithms and so on.
So going back to our real test here we have a terminal from Al Pari and this is where we are going to
be running the test.
There's five hundred dollars of funds here already and all we have to do is launch our expert adviser
.
But before we do that there's one thing that we have to check because our expert advisors simple system
is highly dependent on time.
We need to make.
We need to check how the time of the broker compares to the server time of the broker lives with the
server time of the other broker or the other server where we did a demo test.
So our demo test as you can see here we did in the global terminal and the market watch time there is
48 minutes past midnight on Monday the 22nd of September.
Whereas the Al parta terminal server time is one hour forty eight minutes past midnight.
So that means that there's a shift in the charts and we can even see that.
If we zoom in to the chart and pick out any given bar so that let's zoom in and for example odds are
smartish.
So if we pick up this long bar and look at what time it occurred.
So here you can see at the bottom that it occurred at 10 o'clock on the server where we were doing our
demo test.
So now if we go to the real server where we're going to be running a test peripherial funds you look
at the same long bar and we look at the time when it occurred you'll notice that it occurred at 11:00
.
So therefore this whole chod is shifted by one bar to the right in comparison to the demo test.
And that's something we have to take into account when we're launching our expert adviser.
Now if you're working with an expert advisor that doesn't take time in to account in his algorithm then
you don't need to think about these things.
But in our case it's very vital that we do make this adjustment.
So we're going to be doing that.
Also I wanted to show you that I've already copied a simple system version 5.0 into the terminal and
also you'll see another expert.
Why is a simple system version 5.1.
The only difference between these two is that in simple system version 5.1 I added another parameter
which is the magic number.
And that kind of allows you to launch many of the same expert adviser in one terminal and them not to
interfere with each other's trade.
So you can download a simple system version five point or five point one from the same place where you
downloaded a simple system version five point oh it comes together with the score.
It's no additional charge.
And you can download it for free from there so please feel free to do that.
Now what we want to do next is we want to run before we launched expertize and we want to run some tests
in the tester just to make sure that the results align with what we saw in the demo in the general demo
test in order to run these tests correctly you have to open your chart which is going to be running
expert driver on and first get as much history as you can.
So how to do that is you press home the home button while you are on the chart and you will see it adding
more dots.
And you also need to make sure you do that for all the other timeframes.
If you're going to be running a test or using the old ticks model but we're going to use open price
model because we know that for our expert guys it doesn't really matter.
And then we have simple system 5.1 currency per British pound period or one our open prices.
I've already set time interval to when we ran our When we started running our back tests.
So the 8th of May 2014 and the end date I said it today.
And so what we can do is we're going to load the expert properties so as we agreed we're not going to
be considering that first set where there were no profitable trades at all.
So we'll start with the second set said to her our was nine and now we know we need to adjust the time
.
So if that long bar was at 10 and then now in the AL Pari terminals at 11 so we have to change start
or we have to increase it by one and all of our sets.
So it will change it to 10.
Also we have to take into account that all party is a five digit broker and we need to adjust our set
accordingly so many people limit we have multiplied by 10.
Take profit have to multiply it by 10 and stop loss.
We have to multiply by 10.
The rest of the parameters we don't need to touch.
And as you can see here there's a magic number that will be important when we get to launching the expert
on the Reel.com doesn't affect the strategy tests or runs.
So we'll click OK and we'll click start and we look at our report our report looks reasonable if we
compare it to what we saw in our back and testing for test.
It will look very similar.
And so that's that's a good sign that means that your expert advisor performs on this real Alpari terminal
.
Very similar to how it performed in the demo test runs that we we have been doing so far.
So let's check another set the next set.
The set three if are for open that quickly adjust this.
These ones by 10 and let's run that and have a look at the result.
So here we have an unexpected dip or a drawdown something I would not did not see on the back test and
forward test that sometimes happens and means that the data the historical data that's stored in the
alpari terminal is different to what we use what was stored and what we used in the global terminal
where we ran the demo test.
So that basically signals to us that we must be very cautious with the set if we are going to use it
we cannot really rely on the results of the demo test practice for test.
We do see here a upward trend that is very favorable and that's why I will launch this set now just
to see how it goes.
But we will launch it with very small a lot because we do have to be cautious with it.
And finally let's look at the last set where our was 8.
Here we have to change it to 9.
Multiply these by 10 and click OK.
Let's run that
as you see here we have a very linear smooth graph something that we saw in the back test forward test
and demo test where we didn't have even one loss over the two week period.
So this is very good.
And I think we will focus on this set as the main one.
Now we can close the test so we don't really need it anymore and we want to launch the expert advisors
So we're going to open two more charts for the British pound one on the time frame.
We'll go down to simple system version 5.1 and we'll just drag it onto our charts.
So here we're going to go to inputs load.
It's on the desktop sets and we're going to load and load the set first.
And here we have to change of course to turn a is going to be 80.
Just adding zeros at the end for the stop loss to implement and the next thing that we need to think
about is a lot.
So I've prepared some calculations here.
And as you can see for this set the take profit is 106 Pip's.
So if you subtract the 3 pips spread then it's $10 30 of profit per every point is 0 1 Lotts Stop-Loss
is 28.
So it's $3 10 profit per every 0.1.
A lot of similar calculations have been done for the rest of them.
And so this set is the one we're going to set at .02 lots meaning that per day we can maximum lose about
$6 20 which makes it about $30 or $31 in a week.
Then we can lose maximum of all trades are not profitable.
So that's something that we can tolerate and with a $500 deposit.
And that's what we're going to set it at.
So it's set it at .02 a point.
And the magic number which is going to leave it as it is for now for this set.
Next we're going to move on to the next chart.
Simple system margin five point one load desktop sets.
And we're going to load the next set.
This is the one we can really trust.
So first of all we're going to do all necessary adjustments.
Fifty and but the lot will it's the least one we can sort of point or one we have to change the magic
number so you can put an end number absolutely any number here is always different to the number of
the first set.
But here I'll just increase it by 1 and that will make sure that sets don't interfere with each other's
trades.
OK.
There it is happy and running.
And finally simple system version 5 1 1 on this chart we're going to load the right set here.
This is the arrow and this is the one we like the most we have to change this to 9 limit is 100 This
is 200.
This is 600.
And now we have to change the magic to put a 3 on the end or any number you like as long as it's different
to the previous ones.
It's just like an identifier of the trades and lots we're going to set it at point zero or three because
this is the set that we like the most click OK.
There it is running.
And so that's how we set up the real test run.
You might be wondering why or how were your adult charge open here.
Well that's because I have a another expert buzzer running which is a watch dog.
It doesn't create any trades but what it does do is it makes sure that the connection to the server
is always current.
It's always green over here and that there is always a possibility stability for the other expert to
monitor the trades to create trades to close trades basically make sure that the connection is always
there.
And this is something that I use in all of my trading terminals all the time because it definitely gives
me that advantage that when I'm away I can be confident that my experience Wiser's are online and that
they're working 24 hours five days in the working week.
And if you would like to learn more on how to set up a watchdog and how to make sure that your training
terminals are safe and that they're sick that they're reliable and that you can be confident that your
expert advisors are trading all the time to check out my other course which is for export.
BP has set up for algorithmic trading.
I know that I've already mentioned it to you in this current course but I just want to say that I think
that the information there can be very valuable to traders especially us who use algorithmic trading
systems to make profits on the forex market.
Discourse can definitely help you sleep better at night knowing that your if anything happens on new
IPs.
A connection disruption a power shortage reboot maintenance whatever that the tools that you have set
up including this watchdog that these tools will make sure that you will be Peirce's up and running
as soon as possible.
And your expert advisers are back on line and that your losses are minimized.
If if they are in you at all.
So that's that's for today.
The real test is on its way and we'll check in soon to see how it's going.
And I look forward to seeing it in the next tutorial until then.
And the training